# Using the Out of the Box Dataverse MCP Server

# Context
I've found telling the agent to use the named tool does in fact help ground the agent specifically on that named MCP Server. For instance, as an utterance, try the following:

```
Use <MCP Server> for this session.
```

In my example, I have a fictional airline named Youssefi Airlines. I have tools that query Dataverse connectors and use the Dataverse MCP Server. By explicitly naming and calling out the Dataverse MCP Server, I'm able to get much more accurate information.

Before grounding with the above sample, look at my return for the ask "tell me about the last 5 async operations in Youssefi Airlines?":
"It appears that the table name "AsyncOperations" is invalid. Let me check the list of tables available in the Dataverse to find the correct table name."

Now with the grounding:
Operation ID: 2866c5c1-f383-463f-b4c2-ddc46e5a34c9

Name: Calculate rollup fields for the msdyn_liveworkstream entity
Operation Type: Calculate Rollup Field
Created On: 2025-07-10T19:21:46
Completed On: 2025-07-10T19:21:56
Status: Succeeded
...

# Choosing between the Dataverse Connector as a tool or the Dataverse MCP Server
As of this writing, the Dataverse MCP Server only

# Tools in the Dataverse MCP Server
create_record	Insert a row into a table in Dataverse and returns the GUID of the created row.
describe_table	Get the table schema of the requested table in Dataverse.
execute_prompt	Execute a prompt from the list of available predefined prompts in the environment.
list_knowledge_sources	Returns a list of knowledge sources available in Dataverse. Knowledge sources created and used in Copilot Studio agents in the same environment are shown here.
list_prompts	List predefined prompts available in the environment.
list_tables	List tables that are available in the environment
read_query	Read data from tables in Dataverse.
retrieve_knowledge	Use a preconfigured knowledge source to answer questions.
update_record	Update a row in a Dataverse table.

# References
[Dataverse MCP Server](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-apps/maker/data-platform/data-platform-mcp#list-of-tools-available-in-dataverse-mcp-server)